my tests reveal the Aaron victory is the
best variety for making chips if you
can't get those go for Maris Piper now
I'm cutting the potatoes into fairly
regular sized chips because that makes
for an interesting range of textures the
only important thing here is don't cut
them too thick if you do there'll be too
much moisture in the inside of the
potato inside of the chip and what
that'll do is it'll render the chips
soggy so once you cut the chips place
them in a bowl of water and just leave
them under the tap for about five
minutes just until the water becomes
clear washing out some of the starch
I've devised this recipe to make the
fluffiest krispies chips imaginable
it's a three-stage process for the first
step after the potatoes have been washed
place them in a pan of lightly salted
water and cook them on simmering now
they'll take between 10 and 20 minutes
depending on the potato and what we're
looking for here is we want the potato
to be as close as possible to breaking
up
be very careful over a few seconds too
long and you're going to end up with
potato soup these are just about ready
if I can show you this you'll see the
outside of the potato it's all broken up
all those crags and cracks will absorb
the oil and make the outside of the chip
wonderfully crisp so at this point we
need to drain them I've got here a cake
rack set over a tray just place them on
the rack there's still a lot of steam
inside that chip a lot of moisture we
want to get rid of some of that we do
that by using the fridge now the air in
here is very dry put this in here for
about 30 minutes so here's something
that have been in for about half an hour
or so you can see got a wonderful rough
surface but what's happened is while the
potatoes cool down the starch in there
is actually recrystallizes firmed up the
chip and that'll mean we're going to
have a wonderful crust so now for step
two of the three-stage process the first
frying in here our chips that are dried
in the fridge they all set to 130
degrees centigrade they've been in here
for about five minutes and they're just
about ready what we're looking for
is the outside of each chip is just
beginning to color but no more than that
at this stage we dry them out once more
there's still a little bit too much
moisture inside each chip if we don't
get rid of that these chips are still
going to become a bit soggy so turn the
back on the cake rack and repeat the
process again putting them in the fridge
leaving them to dry out a little bit
further and once that's done you can
place them in a sealed container and
leave them until you're ready for the
third stage the final frame